WEP was an early attempt to protect wireless networks from security breaches, but as technology improved, it became evident that information encrypted with WEP is vulnerable0 to attack.

WEP is a component of the IEEE 802.11 WLAN standards. 
Its primary purpose is to ensure data confidentiality on wireless networks at a level equivalent to that of wired LANs, which can use physical security to stop unauthorized access to a network.

In a WLAN, a user or an attacker can access the network without physically connecting to the LAN. 

Therefore, WEP utilizes an encryption mechanism at the data link layer for minimizing unauthorized access to the WLAN.

This is accomplished by encrypting data with the symmetric Rivest Cipher 4 (RC4) encryption algorithm, which is a cryptographic mechanism used to defend against threats

WEP protects against eavesdropping on wireless communications. 

It attempts to prevent unauthorized access to a wireless network. 

It depends on a secret key shared by a mobile station and an AP. 
This key encrypts packets before transmission. Performing an integrity check ensures that packets are not altered during transmission. 
802.11 WEP encrypts only the data between network clients.

WEP was developed without any academic or public review. 

In particular, it was not reviewed by cryptologists during development. Therefore, it has significant vulnerabilities and design flaws. 

WEP is a stream cipher that uses RC4 to produce a stream of bytes that are XORed with plaintext. 

The length of the WEP and secret key are as follows: 
64-bit WEP uses a 40-bit key 
128-bit WEP uses a 104-bit key 
256-bit WEP uses 232-bit key

CRC-32 checksum is used to calculate a 32-bit integrity check value (ICV) for the data, which, in turn, is added to the data frame.

A 24-bit arbitrary number known as the initialization vector (IV) is added to the WEP key; the WEP key and IV are together called the WEP seed.

The WEP seed is used as the input to the RC4 algorithm to generate a keystream, which is bit-wise XORed with a combination of the data and ICV to produce the encrypted data.

The IV field (IV + PAD + KID) is added to the ciphertext to generate a MAC frame. 















