Access Control Attacks

MAC spoofing: 
Using the MAC spoofing technique, an attacker can reconfigure a MAC address to appear as an authorized AP to a host on a trusted network. 
The attacker may use tools such as SMAC to perform this kind of attack.


AP misconfiguration: If a user improperly configures any of the critical security settings at any of the APs, the entire network could be exposed to vulnerabilities and attacks. 
The AP cannot trigger alerts in most intrusion-detection systems, because these systems recognize them as a legitimate device.
Most organizations spend significant amounts of time defining and implementing Wi-Fi security policies, but it may be possible for a client of a wireless network to change the
It is difficult to detect a misconfigured AP because it is an authorized, legitimate device on the network. 
Attackers can easily connect to a secured network through misconfigured APs, which continue to function normally after an attacker connects because no alerts will be triggered even if the attacker uses the connection to compromise security. 
Many organizations fail to maintain Wi-Fi security policies and do not take proper measures to eliminate this flaw in security configurations


SSID broadcast: 
An attacker configures APs to broadcast SSIDs to authorized users.
All AP models have their own default SSID, and APs with default configurations using default SSIDs are vulnerable to brute-force dictionary attacks.
Even if users enable WEP, an unencrypted SSID broadcasts the password in plaintext.


Weak password:
Some network administrators incorrectly use SSIDs as basic passwords to verify authorized users.
SSIDs act as rudimentary passwords and help network administrators recognize authorized wireless devices in the network.


 Configuration error: 
Configuration errors include errors made during installation, configuration policies on an AP, human errors made while troubleshooting WLAN problems, and security changes not implemented uniformly across an architecture.
SSID broadcasting is a configuration error that assists attackers in stealing an SSID, which makes the AP assume that the attacker is attempting a legitimate connection.


 Ad hoc associations: 
Wi-Fi clients can communicate directly via an ad-hoc mode that does not require an AP to relay packets. 
Data can be conveniently shared among clients in ad-hoc networks, which are quite popular among Wi-Fi users. 
Security threats arise when an attacker forces a network to enable the ad-hoc mode. 
Some network resources are accessible only in the ad-hoc mode, but this mode is inherently insecure and does not provide strong authentication or encryption. 
Thus, an attacker can easily connect to and compromise a client operating in the ad-hoc mode. 
An attacker who penetrates a wireless network can also use an ad-hoc connection to compromise the security of the organization’s wired LAN



Promiscuous client:
Using a promiscuous client, an attacker exploits the behavior of 802.11 wireless cards: they always attempt to find a stronger signal to connect. 
An attacker places an AP near the target Wi-Fi network and gives it a common SSID, offering an irresistibly stronger signal and higher speed than the target Wi-Fi network.
The intent is to lure the client to connect to the attacker's AP, rather than a legitimate Wi-Fi network.
Promiscuous clients allow an attacker to transmit target network traffic through a fake AP. 
It is very similar to the evil-twin threat on wireless networks, in which an attacker launches an AP that poses as an authorized AP by beaconing the WLAN's SSID.


Client mis-association:
The client may intentionally or accidentally connect or associate with an AP outside the legitimate network because the WLAN signals travel through the air, walls, and other obstructions.
This kind of client mis-association can lead to access-control attacks.
Mis-association is a security flaw that can occur when a network client connects with a neighboring AP
To perform a client mis-association attack, an attacker sets up a rogue AP outside the corporation’s perimeter. 
The attacker first learns the SSID of the target wireless network. 
Using a spoofed SSID, the attacker may send beacons advertising the rogue AP in order to lure clients to connect.
The attacker can use the rogue AP as a channel to bypass enterprise security policies. 
Once a client connects to the rogue AP, an attacker can retrieve sensitive information such as usernames and passwords by launching MITM, EAP dictionary, or Metasploit attacks to exploit client mis-association.


 Unauthorized association: 
Unauthorized association is a major threat to wireless networks. It has two forms: accidental association and malicious association.
An attacker performs malicious association with the help of soft APs instead of corporate APs. 
The attacker creates a soft AP, typically on a laptop, by running a tool that makes the laptop’s NIC appear as a legitimate AP. 
The attacker then uses the soft AP to gain access to the target wireless network. 
Software APs are available on client cards or embedded WLAN radios in some PDAs and laptops; an attacker can launch these directly or through a virus program. 
The attacker infects the victim's machine and activates soft APs, allowing an unauthorized connection to the enterprise network.
An attacker who gains access to the network using unauthorized association may steal passwords, launch attacks on a wired network, or plant Trojans. 
On the other hand, accidental association involves connecting to the target network’s AP from a neighboring organization’s overlapping network without the victim’s knowledge


















