MAC Spoofing Attack 

AP MAC Spoofing 
In wireless networks, the transmit probes of APs respond through beacons to advertise presence and availability. 

The probe responses contain information on the AP identity (MAC address) and the identity of the network it supports (SSID). 

Clients in the vicinity connect to the network through these beacons based on the MAC address and the SSID it contains. 

Many software tools and APs allow setting user-defined values for the MAC addresses and SSIDs of AP devices. 

AP MAC spoofing is a technique used by attackers to impersonate a legitimate wireless access point (AP) by changing the MAC address of the device to match that of the trusted AP. 

First, the attacker identifies the MAC address of a legitimate AP, typically by monitoring the network traffic or using a tool to scan available wireless networks. 

The attacker then configures its rogue access point with the same MAC address and, often, the same SSID as the legitimate AP. 

Attackers may use deauthentication packets to force users off a legitimate AP, prompting their devices to reconnect to the nearest AP with the same MAC address and SSID, often the rogue AP. 

Once users connect to a rogue AP, attackers can intercept, manipulate, or redirect the network traffic, enabling them to capture sensitive information or launch further attacks


MAC Spoofing
Attack A MAC address is a unique identifier hard-coded in the circuit of a network card by its manufacturer.

Some networks implement MAC address filtering as a security measure. 

In MAC spoofing, attackers change their MAC address to that of an authenticated user to bypass the MAC filtering configured in an AP.

To spoof a MAC address, the attacker simply needs to set the value returned by ifconfig to another hex value in the format of aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff.

This change is made through the sudo command, which requires the root password. 

Attackers use MAC spoofing tools such as Technitium MAC Address Changer and LizardSystems Change MAC Address tool to change the MAC address


MAC Spoofing Tools 

▪ Technitium 
MAC Address Changer Source: https://technitium.com Technitium MAC Address Changer allows a user to change (spoof) the MAC address of their NIC instantly. 
It has a simple user interface and provides information regarding each NIC in the machine. The MAC address is used by Windows drivers to access Ethernet LANs







