Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM): It is a universal system used for mobile data transmission in wireless networks worldwide.

 Bandwidth: It describes the amount of information that may be broadcast over a connection. Usually, bandwidth refers to the data transfer rate and is measured in bits (amount of data) per second (bps).

Access point (AP): An AP is used to connect wireless devices to a wireless/wired network. It allows wireless communication devices to connect to a wireless network through wireless standards such as Bluetooth and Wi-Fi.

It is the media access control (MAC) address of an access point (AP) or base station that has set up a basic service set (BSS). Generally, users are unaware of the BSS to which they belong. 
When a user moves a device, the BSS used by the device could change because of a variation in the range covered by the AP, but this change may not affect the connectivity of the wireless device

 Industrial, scientific, and medical (ISM) band: This band is a set of frequencies used by the international industrial, scientific, and medical communities.

Hotspot: These are places where wireless networks are available for public use. Hotspots refer to areas with Wi-Fi availability, where users can enable Wi-Fi on their devices and connect to the Internet

Association: It refers to the process of connecting a wireless device to an AP

 Service set identifier (SSID): An SSID is a 32-alphanumeric-character unique identifier given to a wireless local area network (WLAN) that acts as a wireless identifier of the network. 
The SSID permits connections to the desired network among available independent networks. Devices connecting to the same WLAN should use the same SSID to establish connections

 Orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM): An OFDM is a method of digital modulation of data in which a signal, at a chosen frequency, is split into multiple carrier frequencies that are orthogonal (occurring at right angles) to each other. 
OFDM maps information on the changes in the carrier phase, frequency, amplitude, or a combination of these and shares bandwidth with other independent channels.

Direct-sequence spread spectrum (DSSS): DSSS is a spread spectrum technique that multiplies the original data signal with a pseudo-random noise-spreading code.

Multiple input, multiple output-orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (MIMO-OFDM): MIMO-OFDM influences the spectral efficiency of 4G and 5G wireless communication services. 
Adopting the MIMO-OFDM technique reduces interference and increases the channel robustness

Frequency-hopping spread spectrum (FHSS): FHSS, also known as frequency-hopping code-division multiple access (FH-CDMA), is a method of transmitting radio signals by rapidly switching a carrier among many frequency channels.
It decreases the efficiency of unauthorized interception or jamming of telecommunications. 





