A wormhole attack exploits dynamic routing protocols such as Dynamic Source Routing (DSR) and the Ad-Hoc On-Demand Distance Vector (AODV).

In this attack, an attacker locates themselves strategically in the target network to sniff and record ongoing wireless transmissions.

From this location, the attacker advertises that the malicious node has the shortest route for transmitting data to other nodes in the network.

To perform sniffing and to record the ongoing communication, the attacker creates a tunnel to forward the data between the source and destination node.

In wireless sensor networks, protocols such as AODV and DSR use route request (RREQ) and route reply (RREP) messages to discover the dynamic route between source and destination nodes.

For example, a source node (S) sends an RREQ packet, which is a broadcast message to the destination node (D), and D responds by sending the RREP packet, which is a unicast message.

RREP contains the route information to reach D. When S receives this message, it stores this information in its route cache and forwards all the application data to D using this route.

In a wormhole attack, the attacker attempts to build a tunnel between S and D using a malicious node (M) within the transmission range of S and D.

The attacker listens to the network traffic waiting for RREQ messages. 

When S attempts to transmit some application data to D, it first sends an RREQ message to discover the route to D. 

The attacker sniffs this RREQ message from S and forwards the RREQ message directly to D before the original RREQ message reaches D. 

Similarly, the attacker sniffs the RREP message from D and forwards it to S before the original RREP message reaches S, thereby creating a fake direct link between S and D via M. 

After establishing a successful tunnel between S and D, the attacker starts controlling the data flow between the two nodes and may start performing other types of attacks.

Wormhole attacks pose a severe threat to wireless sensor networks because attackers using this attack may manipulate routing and application data in real time, severely impacting the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of network data.




