Wi-Fi Protected Access 3 (WPA3) was announced by the Wi-Fi Alliance on January 2018 as an advanced implementation of WPA2 that provides trailblazing protocols.

Like WPA2, the WPA3 protocol has two variants: WPA3-Personal and WPA3-Enterprise. 

WPA3 provides cutting-edge features to simplify Wi-Fi security and provides the capabilities necessary to support different network deployments ranging from corporate networks to home networks.

It also ensures cryptographic consistency using encryption algorithms such as AES and TKIP to defend against network attacks.

Furthermore, it provides network resilience through Protected Management Frames (PMF) that deliver a high level of protection against eavesdropping and forging attacks. 

WPA3 also disallows outdated legacy protocols.


WPA3 offers two modes of operation: 

WPA3-Personal:
This mode is mainly used to deliver password-based authentication. 
WPA3 is more rigid to attacks than WPA2 because it uses a modern key establishment protocol called the Simultaneous Authentication of Equals (SAE), also known as Dragonfly Key Exchange, which replaces the PSK concept used in WPA2-Personal. 

Some of the features of WPA3-Personal are described below. 
Resistance to offline dictionary attacks: It prevents passive password attacks such as brute-forcing.

Resistance to key recovery
Even when a password is determined, it is impossible to capture and determine session keys while maintaining the forward secrecy of network traffic

 Natural password choice:
It allows users to choose weak or popular phrases as passwords, which are easy to remember.

Easy accessibility: 
It can provide greater protection than WPA2 without changing the previous methods used by users for connecting to a network.


WPA3-Enterprise:
This mode is based on WPA2. It offers better security than WPA2 across the network and protects sensitive data using many cryptographic concepts and tools.

Some of the security protocols used by WPA3-Enterprise are described below. 

Authenticated encryption: 
It helps in maintaining the authenticity and confidentiality of data. For this purpose, WPA3 uses the 256-bit Galois/Counter Mode Protocol (GCMP-256).

Key derivation and validation: 
It helps in generating a cryptographic key from a password or master key. 
It uses the 384-bit hashed message authentication mode (HMAC) with the Secure Hash Algorithm, termed HMAC-SHA-384.

Key establishment and verification: 
It helps in exchanging cryptographic keys among two parties. 
For this purpose, WPA3 uses Elliptic Curve Diffie–Hellman (ECDH) exchange and Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA) using a 384-bit elliptic curve

Frame protection and robust administration:
WPA3 uses 256-bit Broadcast/Multicast Integrity Protocol Galois Message Authentication Code (BIP-GMAC-256) for this purpose.



















