Wi-Fi Protected Access 2 (WPA2) is a security protocol used to safeguard wireless networks. WPA2 replaced WPA in 2006.

It is compatible with the 802.11i standard and supports many security features that WPA does not.

WPA2 introduces the use of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) FIPS 140-2-compliant 

AES encryption algorithm, which is a strong wireless encryption algorithm, and the Counter Mode Cipher Block Chaining Message Authentication Code Protocol (CCMP). 

It provides stronger data protection and network access control than WPA. 

Furthermore, it gives a high level of security to Wi-Fi connections so that only authorized users can access the network


▪ WPA2-Personal:
WPA2-Personal uses a password set in advance, called the pre-shared key (PSK), to protect unauthorized network access. 

Each wireless device uses the same 256-bit key generated from a password to authenticate with the AP. 

In the PSK mode, each wireless network device encrypts the network traffic using a 128-bit key derived from a passphrase of 8–63 ASCII characters.

The router uses the combination of a passphrase, network SSID, and TKIP to generate a unique encryption key for each wireless client. These encryption keys change continually.


WPA2-Enterprise: 
WPA2-Enterprise uses EAP or RADIUS for centralized client authentication using multiple authentication methods, such as token cards, Kerberos, and certificates.

WPA-Enterprise assigns a unique ciphered key to every system and hides it from the user in order to provide additional security and to prevent the sharing of keys. 

Users are allocated login credentials by a centralized server, which they must present when connecting to the network


Working:-

During CCMP implementation, additional authentication data (AAD) are generated using a MAC header and included in the encryption process that uses both AES and CCMP encryptions.

Consequently, the non-encrypted portion of the frame is protected from any alteration or distortion. 

The protocol uses a sequenced packet number (PN) and a portion of the MAC header to generate a Nonce that it uses in the encryption process. 

The protocol gives plaintext data, and temporal keys, AAD, and Nonce are used as input for the data encryption process that uses both AES and CCMP algorithms.
A PN is included in the CCMP header for protection against replay attacks. 

The resultant data from the AES and CCMP algorithms produce encrypted text and an encrypted MIC value. 

Finally, the assembled MAC header, CCMP header, encrypted data, and encrypted MIC form the WPA2 MAC frame. 










